README.md, before:

# MasseyRamanujan

The Ramanujan Machine is an algorithmic approach to discover new mathematical conjectures. For the time being, the 
project is focused in number theory, specifically on finding formulas relating fundamental constants like pi, e, and 
the Riemann zeta function values to various continued fractions.

For more information, please go to [RamanujanMachine.com](https://www.RamanujanMachine.com).

## Installation

Clone the repo and install the package. If you have pip, it can be done by running
```
pip install -e .
```
under the same folder as `setup.py`. That's it, you are now ready to discover new conjectures.

## The MITM_RF algorithm: 
The MITM algorithm will "mine" new Continued Fraction conjectures of the type:
![LHS_RHS](images/LHS_RHS.png)
This project lets you control the equation space scanned by the algorithm.

## Running the code

To start a new execution, you'll need to configure three parts:
1. What LHS do you wish to scan
2. What structure does `an` and `bn` take, and what range do you wish to scan for each coefficient
3. How to decide if there was a match (precission wise) 

you can see examples under `scripts/` folder

#### Left Hand Side Hash Table (`LHSHashTable`) 
This is a data structure that holds expressions made from the required constant.
To create a LHS object, you'll need to choose a constant, and a range for all coefficients in the expression.
The values generated are saved to a file to reduce execution time.

For example, the following code will generate all Mobius transforms of `e`, with coefficients between -5 and 5.
The generated domain is saved to `e_lhs_dept5`
```python
 from ramanujan.LHSHashTable import LHSHashTable
 from ramanujan.constants import g_const_dict

 saved_hash = 'e_lhs_dept5'
 lhs_coefs_range = 5
 lhs = LHSHashTable(
    saved_hash,
    lhs_coefs_range,
    [g_const_dict['e']])
```

#### `an` and `bn` Structures (any class under `poly_domains`) 
An objects that generates pairs of `an` and `bn` series.

The simplest structure you can choose will be `Xn = c0 * n^k + c1 * n^(k-1) + ... + ck` for both `an` and `bn` (with the
matching degree for each), when coefficient is independent of the rest. 

This type of domain can be defined as follows:
 ```python
  from ramanujan.poly_domains.CartesianProductPolyDomain import CartesianProductPolyDomain
  
  poly_search_domain = CartesianProductPolyDomain(
    2, [-5, 5], # an coefs
    2, [-5, 5]) # bn coefs
```
In this example, we've chosen both `an` and `bn` to be of degree 2, and the coefficients are integers that range from
-5 to 5. All combination of coefficients under those restriction will be generated.

To create more intricate structures, you may create a class that extents `CartesianProductPolyDomain` or 
`AbstractPolyDomains`. You can take a look at `ExampleDomain` or `Zeta3Domain1` as an example that expand this logic.

#### The Enumerator (any class under `enumerators`)
Last but not least, you'll need to choose an algorithm that compares the two. 

The simplest, and fastest approach is implemented under `EfficentGCFEnumerator`. It follows a two-step process:
1. For any pair `an` and `bn` calculate the GCF to a dept of 30. Compare each result to values in LHSHashTable, using 
   low precision and store matches.
2. The matches are re-evaluated to a dept of 1000, and compared again for higher precision, thus eliminating false 
   positives. The final results are then presented as new conjectures.
   
For farther information regarding this algorithm, please refer to our paper 'the Ramanujan machine' under 
the 'MITM-RF algorithm' chapter, or visit our website [RamanujanMachine.com](https://www.RamanujanMachine.com).

For example, creating `EfficientGCFEnumerator` using the `LHSHashTable` and `poly_domain` defined above:
```python
from ramanujan.enumerators.EfficientGCFEnumerator import EfficientGCFEnumerator

enumerator = EfficientGCFEnumerator(
    lhs,
    poly_search_domain,
    [g_const_dict['e']]
    )
```

And thats it! start your execution by running:
```python
results = enumerator.full_execution()
```
and print your results by running:
```python
enumerator.print_results(results)
```

### Cool examples
Examples for conjectures can be found under `scripts/paper_results`. Just run every script there and start finding
conjectures!

### Tweaking the search parameters

Now that you've seen how to run the basic code, you can tweak the search parameters and find new conjectures of your own.

If you wish to change the searched series, you can create a new class that extends `CartesianProductPolyDomain`,
and defines your new polynomial families. Please see `poly_domains\ExampleDomain` for a detailed example.

Commit message:

first doing some version control
don't need setup.cfg if we just use setup.py
also currently some of our packages don't support python3.11, so the latest version we can use is 3.10.8

README.md, after:

# MasseyRamanujan

The Ramanujan Machine is an algorithmic approach to discover new mathematical conjectures. For the time being, the 
project is focused in number theory, specifically on finding formulas relating fundamental constants like pi, e, and 
the Riemann zeta function values to various continued fractions.

For more information, please go to [RamanujanMachine.com](https://www.RamanujanMachine.com).

## Installation

As of now, [Python3.10.8](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-3108/) (and no later) is required. Clone the repo, install the package, and run
```
pip install -e .
```
under the same folder as `setup.py`. That's it, you are now ready to discover new conjectures.

## The MITM_RF algorithm: 
The MITM algorithm will "mine" new Continued Fraction conjectures of the type:
![LHS_RHS](images/LHS_RHS.png)
This project lets you control the equation space scanned by the algorithm.

## Running the code

To start a new execution, you'll need to configure three parts:
1. What LHS do you wish to scan
2. What structure does `an` and `bn` take, and what range do you wish to scan for each coefficient
3. How to decide if there was a match (precission wise) 

you can see examples under `scripts/` folder

#### Left Hand Side Hash Table (`LHSHashTable`) 
This is a data structure that holds expressions made from the required constant.
To create a LHS object, you'll need to choose a constant, and a range for all coefficients in the expression.
The values generated are saved to a file to reduce execution time.

For example, the following code will generate all Mobius transforms of `e`, with coefficients between -5 and 5.
The generated domain is saved to `e_lhs_dept5`
```python
 from ramanujan.LHSHashTable import LHSHashTable
 from ramanujan.constants import g_const_dict

 saved_hash = 'e_lhs_dept5'
 lhs_coefs_range = 5
 lhs = LHSHashTable(
    saved_hash,
    lhs_coefs_range,
    [g_const_dict['e']])
```

#### `an` and `bn` Structures (any class under `poly_domains`) 
An objects that generates pairs of `an` and `bn` series.

The simplest structure you can choose will be `Xn = c0 * n^k + c1 * n^(k-1) + ... + ck` for both `an` and `bn` (with the
matching degree for each), when coefficient is independent of the rest. 

This type of domain can be defined as follows:
 ```python
  from ramanujan.poly_domains.CartesianProductPolyDomain import CartesianProductPolyDomain
  
  poly_search_domain = CartesianProductPolyDomain(
    2, [-5, 5], # an coefs
    2, [-5, 5]) # bn coefs
```
In this example, we've chosen both `an` and `bn` to be of degree 2, and the coefficients are integers that range from
-5 to 5. All combination of coefficients under those restriction will be generated.

To create more intricate structures, you may create a class that extents `CartesianProductPolyDomain` or 
`AbstractPolyDomains`. You can take a look at `ExampleDomain` or `Zeta3Domain1` as an example that expand this logic.

#### The Enumerator (any class under `enumerators`)
Last but not least, you'll need to choose an algorithm that compares the two. 

The simplest, and fastest approach is implemented under `EfficentGCFEnumerator`. It follows a two-step process:
1. For any pair `an` and `bn` calculate the GCF to a dept of 30. Compare each result to values in LHSHashTable, using 
   low precision and store matches.
2. The matches are re-evaluated to a dept of 1000, and compared again for higher precision, thus eliminating false 
   positives. The final results are then presented as new conjectures.
   
For farther information regarding this algorithm, please refer to our paper 'the Ramanujan machine' under 
the 'MITM-RF algorithm' chapter, or visit our website [RamanujanMachine.com](https://www.RamanujanMachine.com).

For example, creating `EfficientGCFEnumerator` using the `LHSHashTable` and `poly_domain` defined above:
```python
from ramanujan.enumerators.EfficientGCFEnumerator import EfficientGCFEnumerator

enumerator = EfficientGCFEnumerator(
    lhs,
    poly_search_domain,
    [g_const_dict['e']]
    )
```

And thats it! start your execution by running:
```python
results = enumerator.full_execution()
```
and print your results by running:
```python
enumerator.print_results(results)
```

### Cool examples
Examples for conjectures can be found under `scripts/paper_results`. Just run every script there and start finding
conjectures!

### Tweaking the search parameters

Now that you've seen how to run the basic code, you can tweak the search parameters and find new conjectures of your own.

If you wish to change the searched series, you can create a new class that extends `CartesianProductPolyDomain`,
and defines your new polynomial families. Please see `poly_domains\ExampleDomain` for a detailed example.
